11.16.x content versioning/visual editor updates (#547)
directus/docs: content/guides/02.content/6.content-versioning.md

## Concepts

> - **Version**: A snapshot of an item that allows you to safely make changes without affecting the current version or main item. Versions can be promoted to become the new main item.

Reviewer: It is not a snapshot and we can’t make them from other versions atm.

```suggestion
- **Version**: A version of an item that allows you to safely make changes without affecting the main item. Versions can be promoted to become the new main item.
```

Navigate to **Settings** > **Data Model**, select the collection that you want to enable content versioning for, and scroll down to the content versioning section. Toggle "Enable Versions" and save your data model.

## Working with the Draft Version

When content versioning is enabled for a collection, a global draft version is automatically available for all items. This reserved version provides a safe workspace for preparing changes before publishing to your live content.

![Content versioning draft](/img/versioning-draft.png)

### Understanding the Draft Version

The draft version:
- Appears automatically in the version list for all items with versioning enabled
- Shows as empty until you make edits
- Transforms from a virtual placeholder to an actual version when you save changes
- Uses "**draft**" as a reserved version key that cannot be used for custom versions

> - Can be customized with a different display name, though it defaults to "Draft"

Reviewer: This not possible. "Draft" is always "Draft" or the translated "$t:draft" name of it. This way we avoid confusion when we select a draft from the version select menu.

```suggestion
```

::callout{icon="material-symbols:warning"}
**Backward Compatibility**  

> The reserved global "draft" version was introduced in Directus 11.15.0. If you previously had custom versions with the key "draft", they will be preserved with their current names but cannot be deleted. The reserved draft version will coexist with your existing draft versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reserved global "draft" version was introduced in Directus 11.15.0. If you have an existing version with the key `draft` and a custom name other than “Draft”, the display name will be standardized to “Draft” (i.e. transformed) to support the new global versioning feature. The version content and functionality remain unchanged.
```

> The reserved global "draft" version was introduced in Directus 11.15.0. If you previously had custom versions with the key "draft", they will be preserved with their current names but cannot be deleted. The reserved draft version will coexist with your existing draft versions.

Author: ```suggestion
The reserved global "draft" version was introduced in Directus 11.16.0. If you have an existing version with the key `draft` and a custom name other than "Draft", the display name will be standardized to "Draft" (i.e. transformed) to support the new global versioning feature. The version content and functionality remain unchanged.
```

::

> ### Using Draft in the Visual Editor

Reviewer: Does this make more sense if we put it here or to /docs/guides/content/visual-editor/studio-module?

The Visual Editor integrates seamlessly with the draft version, allowing you to preview and edit changes in context:

1. **Switch versions** using the dropdown in the Visual Editor header to toggle between "Main" and "Draft"

> 2. **Edit items** that have content in the active version - items are only directly editable when they exist in the selected version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Edit items** that have content in the active version – items are only directly editable when they exist in the selected version
```

3. **Preview changes** using the version-aware preview URL before publishing to main
4. **Fallback behavior** - items without content in the selected version display their main version content (read-only)

::callout{icon="material-symbols:info-outline"}
**Version-Aware Editing**  

> When working in a specific version like draft, only items that have content saved in that version will show edit affordances. Other items fall back to displaying their main version content without automatically creating new version entries.

Reviewer: Let’s wait until the final implementation with this.

Once promoted, this version becomes the active content, and the previous main item is preserved in the version history. 

After promoting a version, you can choose to keep or delete the version. For the global draft version, you'll see options to "Discard Edits" or "Keep Edits" instead of "Delete Version" or "Keep Version".

::callout{icon="material-symbols:info-outline"}
**Programmatically Implement Content Versioning**  
You have the option to integrate Content Versioning through the API. To learn how to accomplish this, please refer to
our [API reference documentation](/api/versions).
::

> ## Configuring Visual Editor for Versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring Live Preview for Versions
```

Reviewer: outdated

> To enable version-aware previewing in the Visual Editor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable version-aware previewing in the Live Preview:
```

1. Navigate to **Settings** > **Data Model** and select your collection

> 2. In the Visual Editor settings, configure your preview URL to include the `version` variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the Live Preview settings, configure your preview URL to include the `version` variable
```

> 3. Example preview URL: `https://your-site.com/preview?item={{id}}&version={{version}}`

Reviewer: A more realistic/classic example

```suggestion
3. Example preview URL: `https://your-site.com/{{slug}}?preview=true&version={{version}}`
```

> The Visual Editor will automatically pass the active version to your preview, allowing you to see draft changes in the context of your actual site layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Live Preview will automatically pass the active version to your preview, allowing you to see draft changes in the context of your actual site layout.
```
